SOFTWARE DEVELOPER KIT/APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE AGREEMENT

|

NOTICE:  THIS SOFTWARE DEVELOPER KIT/APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT") IS A BINDING LEGAL CONTRACT BETWEEN YOU AND MOBILECOIN INC. ("MobileCoin") FOR USE OF ITS SOFTWARE DEVELOPER KIT AND ANY ACCOMPANING SOFTWARE, APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACES, SPECIFICATIONS, AND DOCUMENTATION (COLLECTIVELY, THE "SDK").  BY DOWNLOADING OR USING THE SDK, YOU ARE AGREEING TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, YOU MUST IMMEDIATELY CEASE ALL USE OF THE SDK. 

If this Agreement is being agreed to by a company or other legal entity, then the person agreeing to this agreement on behalf of that company or entity represents and warrants that he or she is authorized and lawfully able to bind that company or entity to this agreement.  In such a case, all references to "you" in this Agreement are deemed to include that company or other legal entity.  If you are an individual developer entering into this Agreement on your own behalf, you agree you are of legal age and capable of entering into binding contracts.

YOU SHOULD PRINT AND RETAIN A COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT FOR YOUR RECORDS BY USING THE PRINT FUNCTIONALITY IN YOUR BROWSER.

 |

License: During the term of this Agreement, MobileCoin grants you a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, "as-is" license to use the SDK solely for purposes of developing, testing, and using certain programming and other applications and services ("Your Applications") related to use of the related software, hardware, and/or cloud services offered by MobileCoin or its partners.  Certain elements of the SDK may be furnished subject to relevant open source licenses.  In such case, the relevant open source licenses will govern in the event of a conflict.  MobileCoin may terminate this Agreement at any time, without cause, on written notice to you.  This Agreement shall automatically terminate if you breach any of its provisions.  MobileCoin may modify or alter the SDK at any time.  In such case, it will use reasonable efforts to advise you of any such change to the SDK.

License Restrictions:  You are only authorized to use the SDK in accordance with its accompanying documentation and for the limited purposes authorized herein.  Except as expressly authorized in this Agreement, you may not modify, copy, or distribute the SDK.  You shall not, nor will you knowingly allow any third party to, attempt to reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble any software or other programming provided in the SDK for any reason, unless such software or programming is provided in source code format in the SDK.

Title and Proprietary Rights:  You understand and acknowledge that the SDK is protected by national and international intellectual property laws and treaties, including, but not limited to, United States copyright laws.  The SDK is licensed, not sold.  Title to the SDK and all copies thereof, as well as all associated intellectual property rights in the SDK, is retained solely and exclusively by MobileCoin.  Except for the limited license granted above,\
MobileCoin is not granting you any express or implied right under any of MobileCoin's patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, or any other proprietary rights.  You shall not remove any copyright, patent, trade secret, proprietary and/or other legal notices contained on or in the SDK, including any associated software, programming, or documentation.  You shall not use any information or data disclosed by MobileCoin in connection with this Agreement to contest the validity of any MobileCoin intellectual property rights.  Any such use of MobileCoin's information and data shall constitute a material, non-curable breach of this Agreement.

Non-Interference With MobileCoin Development. You acknowledge that MobileCoin may be currently developing or may develop technologies and products in the future that have or may have design and/or functionality similar to Your Applications. Nothing in this Agreement will impair, limit, interfere with, or curtail MobileCoin's right to continue with its development, maintenance and/or distribution of its technology or products. You will not assert in any way any patent owned or licensed by You arising out of or in connection with this SDK against MobileCoin, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or their respective customers, direct or indirect, agents and contractors for the manufacture, use, import, licensing, offer for sale or sale of any MobileCoin products or services.

Proprietary Information:  You acknowledge and agree the SDK and other confidential information provided to you constitutes valuable proprietary and confidential information and intellectual property (collectively, the "Proprietary Information") of MobileCoin.  You shall not use or disclose the Proprietary Information without MobileCoin's prior written consent, except disclosure to and subsequent uses by your employees and contractors who have a need-to-know, provided such employees and contractors have executed written agreements restricting use or disclosure of Proprietary Information that are at least as protective as those set forth in this Agreement.  You shall use at least the same degree of care in protecting the Proprietary Information as you use to protect your own similar information, but in no event less than reasonable care.  You acknowledge that due to the unique nature of the Proprietary Information, MobileCoin will not have an adequate remedy in money or damages in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of its Proprietary Information.  In addition to any other remedies that may be available in law, in equity or otherwise, MobileCoin shall be entitled to obtain injunctive relief to prevent such unauthorized use or disclosure.

Developer Incentives: From time-to-time, MobileCoin may provide certain incentives to Application Developers, including the payment of one-time amounts.  If, when, and to whom such incentives will be offered or provided is in MobileCoin's sole and absolute discretion.  If you are the recipient of such an incentive, you are solely responsible for payment of all taxes applicable to the incentive.

Your Application: You are solely responsible for the licensing and use of your Application, including to end users.  You will make your Application available to end users under one of the following open source licenses:  Apache v2, BSD, or MIT.  MobileCoin may require you to submit your Application for testing prior to use with MobileCoin application or service.  MobileCoin may decline use of your Application for any or no reason, in its sole discretion.

Your Warranties: You represent and warranty as follows:  (i) you and your Application will comply with all applicable laws and regulations; and (ii) you will use industry best practices designed to ensure your Application is free from viruses and other malware.

Disclaimer of Warranty:  THE SDK IS SUPPLIED "AS IS," WITH ALL FAULTS, AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.  MOBILECOIN EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, QUALITY OF INFORMATION, QUIET ENJOYMENT, AND TITLE/NON-INFRINGEMENT. MOBILECOIN DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE SDK WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS OR THAT YOUR USE OF THE SDK WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE, OR THAT DEFECTS IN THE SDK WILL BE CORRECTED. NO ORAL OR WRITTEN INFORMATION OR ADVICE GIVEN BY MOBILECOIN OR ITS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES SHALL CREATE A WARRANTY OR IN ANY WAY INCREASE THE SCOPE OF MOBILECOIN'S OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.  YOU HEREBY WAIVE ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, NOW KNOWN OR LATER DISCOVERED, THAT YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST MOBILECOIN ARISING OUT OF THE SDK AND/OR THIS AGREEMENT.

Limitation of Liability:  THE SDK IS PROVIDED AS A CONVENIENCE TO YOU.  IN NO EVENT WILL MOBILECOIN, ITS AFFILIATES, OR ANY OF ITS OR THEIR RESPECTIVE DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, LICENSORS, SUPPLIER, VENDORS, BUSINESS PARTNERS, OR AGENTS BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE SDK OR OTHERWISE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF THEY HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES.  IN ANY EVENT, THE MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING PARTIES FOR ALL CLAIMS OF EVERY KIND (INCLUDING THOSE ARISING IN CONTRACT AND TORT) ARISING OUT OF THE SDK AND/OR THIS AGREEMENT SHALL NOT EXCEED ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100.00).  YOUR SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY AND MOBILECOIN'S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF YOUR USE OF THE SDK IS TO CEASE USE OF THE SDK.

Termination:  This Agreement is effective until terminated.  MobileCoin may terminate immediately if you fail to comply with any term of this Agreement. Upon termination, your license to use the SDK shall terminate and you shall immediately destroy the SDK or return all full and partial copies of the SDK to MobileCoin.  You may terminate this Agreement at any time by returning the SDK and deleting any associated software or programming from the memory of your computers.  In the event of any termination of this Agreement, the following provisions shall survive:  Title and Proprietary Rights, Non-Interference With MobileCoin Development, Disclaimer of Warranty, Limitation of Liability, Indemnification, Feedback, and General.

Indemnification: To the maximum extent permitted by law, you will defend, indemnify and hold harmless MobileCoin, its affiliates and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims, actions, suits or proceedings, as well as any and all losses, liabilities, damages, fines, sanctions, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs) arising out of or accruing from (a) your use of the SDK, (b) Your Applications, (c) Your Application's infringement any copyright, trademark, trade secret, trade dress, patent or other intellectual property right of any person or defamation of any person or violation of their rights of publicity or privacy, and (d) your breach of this Agreement.

Export: You shall not export, directly or indirectly, the SDK to any country for which the United States or any other country requires any export or import license or other governmental approval without first obtaining such license or approval.  It shall be your responsibility to comply with such export laws, rules and regulations.  You shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless MobileCoin and its affiliates, or any of its or their respective directors, officers, employees, licensors, supplier, vendors, business partners, or agents from and against any and all damages, fines, penalties, assessments, liabilities, costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) arising out of any claim the SDK was exported or otherwise shipped or transported by you in violation of applicable laws, rules and regulations.  

Feedback: You may provide suggestions, comments, or other feedback (collectively, "Feedback") to MobileCoin with respect to its products and services, including the SDK.  Feedback is voluntary and MobileCoin is not required to hold it in confidence. MobileCoin may use Feedback for any purpose without obligation of any kind.  To the extent a license is required under your intellectual property rights to make use of the Feedback, you hereby grant MobileCoin an irrevocable, non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free, world-wide license to use the Feedback in connection with MobileCoin's business, including enhancement of the SDK and related products.

No Use of MobileCoin Marks: This Agreement does not grant you any right to use MobileCoin's name or trademarks.  Without MobileCoin's prior express written authorization, you may not identify MobileCoin in your Application, documentation, or marketing materials.

General:  This Agreement will be construed according to, and the rights of the parties will be governed by, the law of the State of California, without reference to its conflict of laws rules.  Any action at law or in equity arising out of or directly or indirectly relating to this Agreement may be instituted only in the Federal or state courts located in San Francisco, California.  You consent and submit to the personal jurisdiction of those courts for the purposes of any action related to this Agreement, and to extra-territorial service of process. The parties agree that the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (1980) is specifically excluded from application to this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed severable. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held unenforceable by any court of content jurisdiction, it shall be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.  No course of dealing or usage of trade by or between the Parties shall be deemed to affect any such amendment or modification.  Any consent by either party to, or waiver of, a breach by the other, whether express or implied, shall not constitute a consent to, or a waiver of any other, different or subsequent breach.  Nothing in this Agreement shall create in either party any right or authority to incur any obligations on behalf of, or to bind in any respect, the other Party and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to create any agency, joint venture or partnership.  This Agreement sets forth the entire Agreement between the parties and supersedes prior proposals, agreements and representations between them related to the subject matter hereof, whether written or oral.  No modifications or amendments to this Agreement will be binding upon the parties unless made in writing and duly executed by duly authorized representatives of both parties.  

This Agreement may be accepted in electronic form (e.g., by an electronic or other means of demonstrating assent) and your acceptance will be deemed binding between us. You will not contest the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, including under any applicable statute of frauds, because it was accepted or signed in electronic form. Electronically maintained records when produced in hard copy form shall constitute business records and shall have the same validity as any other generally recognized business records.
